Project Charter.

title, project name:
Speakable Programming For Every Language (SPEL).

purpose:
To make a human speakable programming language,
which can be used for human-to-human and human-to-computer communication.
It will be used as the basis for a General Intelligence Operating System,
with focuses on hard real time, parallel processing, and fault tolerance.

business case:
People may be more willing to learn a computer programming language,
which uses grammar structures already available in human languages.

business model:
Main model is to have a software market place, 
where features or bug fixes can be requested, 
and funding for them crowd sourced. 
The core would get a percentage.

can have commericial licenses available for an ongoing fee to core.
i.e. once they stop making payments they either have to stop using it,
or make it open source. What happened with OSX and OpenBSD is unacceptable.

product description/deliverables:
A low level programming language with human language syntax.
Modules/libraries to support higher level programming paradigms.

approach, software model:
edge-driven design.
Bulls eye model, of concentric rings,
with small stable core,
surrounded by modules/libraries and developers/prosumers/spel-makers
surrounded by consumers/end-users/spel-users
surrounded by masses/media

project metrics, measureable project objectives:
Alexa, and search engine ranking. (masses)
Number of downloads. (spel-users)
Number of active contributors. (spel-makers)
Number of architectures supported by core compiler.
Number of design patterns supported with libraries.
Number of programming paradigms supported with libraries.
Male/female ratio of users and makers to assess gender-neutrality.

project resources: (Sep 2014)
1 sourceforge account with free hosting of code and masses site.
1 dual core x64 development platform (laptop which is missing a monitor).
1 raspberry pi web server for developer site.
1 500/80KB ADSL internet connection.
1 fully dedicated core spel-maker (project manager).
1 part time tester.
 -budget:
	~$5/month or as much as project manager can afford.

sponsors:
	social insurance.

project manager:
	Logan Streondj <streondj@gmail.com>

high level assumptions:
More people can learn

high level project risks:

