Project Charter.

title, project name:
Speakable Programming For Every Language Translator (SPELT).

purpose:
Allowing people of any human language background to communicate through SPEL.

business case:
People around the world wish to communicate to others, 
without having to learn a new vocabulary or grammar.
Developers may wish to internationalize their projects,
without having to hire or manage a horde of translators.
International meetings where everyone can use their own language,
and yet still very precisely convey what they mean.
International laws which are meant to be understood in multiple langauges.

business model:
certifications and courses, similar to breadth of CISCO's programs.
while all material would be freely available,
official certification would have a fee,
that is split between teachers and core.

possible jobs as parlimentarians or mediation experts,
for various intercultural language issues.

product description/deliverables:
A command line translator, with web front ends.
Translates file to file, as interpreter, or even gettext files.

approach, software model:
edge-driven design.
Small stable core vocabulary.
Modular extension for domain specific vocabularies.
Content system to allow all vocabularies in same namespace.

project metrics, measureable project objectives:
Alexa, and search engine ranking. (masses)
Number of downloads. (end-users)
Number of active contributors. (developers)
Number of translation targets.
Number of grammar structures supported.

project resources: (Sep 2014)
1 sourceforge account with free hosting of code and masses site.
1 dual core x64 development platform (laptop which is missing a monitor).
1 raspberry pi web server for developer site.
1 500/80KB ADSL internet connection.
1 fully dedicated core spel-maker (project manager).
1 part time tester.
 -budget:
	~$5/month or as much as project manager can afford.

sponsors:
	social insurance.

project manager:
	Logan Streondj <streondj@gmail.com>

high level assumptions:
In order to be understood more clearly by a larger audience,
people would be willing to write or speak in a more formal way.

high level project risks:

