From: Logan Streondj <streondj@gmail.com>
To: spel-mwak@lists.sourceforge.net
Cc: 
Bcc: 
Subject: Inclusive Design
Reply-To: 

Imagine,
you are inspired by a recent Inuktitut blog entry,
then you compose a story with some friends in Japan, Indonesia, and
Tansania, who only speak Japanese, Malay, and Swahili respectively.
After you're done, you send it off to some schools in Latin america,
where they come alive for the children as vivid animations in
Portugese and Spanish. All the while only using the language you are
most comfortable with.
This and much more may be become possible with SPEL (Sppeakable
Programming for Every Language). While it is still under development,
there are some online community planning issues left to sort out.

If there were no language barriers,
and everyone got together on a forum or mailing list,
How do we minimize people being offended,

SPEL will allow people to communicate with each other from different
language backgrounds in a fairly precise way. It is possible that some
idioms may not translate well, and that cultural norms will clash.
There may also be people from more traditional programming
backgrounds, which harbour discriminatory outlook and phrases,
since they are used to an english white-male dominated tech culture.

A recent example being GamerGate, where gamers were offended that a
woman had success producing a game, so they rose an army of anonymous
and started making false accusations, threats and other harribles, 
at her, and any woman that dared support her.
Tumblr is an example of an online community which due to it's
anonymity feature and lack of policing is full of hate blogs and other
unsavoury things.
Obviously we want to avoid those things, hopefully by designing a
system and a culture which would do so. 

SPEL aims to make both programming and precise language accessible to
anyone that can form a grammatical sentence in a human language.
Ideally it is to appeal to families, and young children,
by providing free story books and educational programs. 

If you have ideas I'm happy to hear you out.

Some of mine include:
- intelligent flagging of inappropriate content
- content and quizes on gender and culture sensitivity
- disallowing complete anonymity 

Intelligent flagging:
When something is "flagged as inappropriate" or offensive, 
the person flagging can specify what kind of offense it is,
such as either a logical-fallacy, discrimination, or NSFW,
with more branching underneath possible for accuracy.

This would be verified by a moderator or other members,
and can train an AI similar to a spam-filter for emails.
That way when someone is about to submit something that may be
offensive, the AI will tell them that it could potentially contain the
detected error, and that if it does, there will be consequences.

The offensive content itself would certainly not be visible to the
public. Since only G rated, family-safe content would be visible to
the public (without login).
But i'm not sure if it would be best to delete it altogether,
since we could get accused of censorship, and disgruntled people may
go to vent elsewhere, thus causing the streissand or cobra effect. 
perhaps it would still be available for someone that enables
"offensive" content of a specified category.
Another example is for instance Chinese censorship, where the
government of China may be offended by people talking about democracy,
ideally other people could still view such content.


